# COT-6930-Assignment-3
Assignment 3

Using Motion Capture to Animate a 3D Model Using 3D-posenet
By Ethan Banks
  3D-posenet is an experimental web app which utilizes machine learning to allow a user to control the movements of a 3D model through their webcam through motion capture technology. Published by mishig25 in 2018 the app showcases the potential uses of neural networks for use in motion capture with minimal setup costs. In the demo the app allows the user to make use of their webcam to move a sample 3D model. While the demo itself is rather limited in its uses, as it is an open-source project this technology could be used as a baseline for several other uses.
  
  3D-posenet utilizes ReactJS for the handling of rendering the webpage. ReactJS is a common JavaScript library used for webpages. In the case of 3D-posenet React is used for controlling the app, rendering the non 3D parts of the webpage, calling the other technologies, and getting permission to use the user’s webcam. For the 3D parts of the webpage the library BabylonJS is used. BabylonJS is a library that specializes in 3D rendering in a webpage. These two are combined to properly display the 3D model which receives input from the machine learning model.
  
  For the machine learning portion of the app TensorFlow.js is used. TensorFlow.js is a port of the machine learning library TensorFlow to JavaScript. TensorFlow.js allows for a variety of machine learning functions including the usage of neural networks which are utilized in 3D-posenet. More specifically 3D-posenet utilizes the posenet model released by TensorFlow in 2018. Posenet is a pretrained model that can detect up to 17 keypoints corresponding to various parts to the human body. This model is the backbone of 3D-posenet and provides the ability to recognize human bodies and their movement from a webcam display.
  
  3D-posenet combines this model with ReactJS and BabylonJS in order to animate the movements of the 3D model. ReactJS gets the raw webcam inputs and performs preprocessing on them before sending them to the posenet model. The model then takes the inputs and creates the skeleton for each of the keypoints if the confidence score is high enough. These outputs are then sent as inputs to BabylonJS which uses them for the movement of the 3D model, which is displayed on the webpage in a subsection of the total page handled by ReactJS.
  
  While this specific demo is rather limited in its applications, the underlying technologies and libraries can be used for a wide variety of motion capture uses including animated movies, video games, virtual reality, livestreams (vtubers), and robotics. In terms of data streaming either individual frames could be streamed to play out an animation in near real-time or a series of frames could be saved and then streamed as a single longer animation at a later point.
  
  By being a website there are several advantages offered to 3d-posenet. The largest being the accessibility and portability with the website being accessible on all major operating systems and smartphones. Additionally, because the model runs on the client side - on the user’s browser and not on a server elsewhere - the model can run in near real-time with minimal latency and no requirements for a persistent internet connection after loading the website. This ensures user privacy as there is no telemetry data being collected on the user. Another benefit of being a website is that any changes made to the model will automatically be applied to all users as soon as the page is reloaded, without requiring the user to download any updates. If the user were to download the source code and run it locally there would be no internet connection required at all. A limitation of being a website is that there is a limited amount of computational power available to the model which prevents it from being used for more complicated tasks. The current demo renders at a resolution of 500 x 500 pixels a fraction of what would be necessary for some use cases such as movies.
